# Overview
Fenice EVO has two rear electric motors, the actuation of those is managed by the ECU/DAS. The simple way to actuate is to give the same torque on both of the motors, however in a turn, the outer wheels will need to travel more than the internal wheels. The outer and inner wheels will travel at different speeds and so would require different torques. This is the objective of the traction control: algorithms to assign torques at the two rear motors to improve the overrall performance, both on straights and on turns.

## Torque Vectoring
Torque vectoring will assign different torques between the inner and outer wheels to improve cornering speed and handling.  
Torque vectoring is not only allowing the two weels to travel at different speeds, it is also using two different torques to correct the unsersteering/oversteering behaviour of the vehicle. Giving more torque to the outer weel will get the vehicle be more oversteering, giving it to the inside wheel will increase the understeer.

## Slip Control
Slip control intuitively will prevent the weels from slipping. This is not entirely correct, tires will generate forces only if some level of slip exists, so no slip no force. Given this, slip control will have a setpoint on the slip and will try to keep the slip value as close as possible to the setpoint. This setpoint is highly related to the tire model, in fact we want to keep the slip where the tire can generate more force. The tire model is affected by lots of parameters; these parameters will change in different tracks conditions... So slip control is difficult to tune as it depens on lots of factors.

## Combined
Simply torque vectoring and slip control together.