# Implementation
The steps are mainly:
- Receive CAN messages
- Parsing
- Apply extra conversions
- Update models data
- Step models
- Send CAN messages

## Receive via CAN
The implementation of the CAN socket is the same of the one in telemetry, it has been rewritten in C, but the concept is the same.
1. Initialize the socket struct
2. Open the socket
3. Receive data (blocking)
4. Send data
5. Close the socket

The "issue" of this implementation is that the receive function is blocking and it cannot be implemented an interrupt on it, so the solution was to use threads.  
Each socket has its own receive thread, allowing to have the main loop free.  
With treads the issue is concurrency that means access to the same memory from two different threads gives undefined behaviour. How to prevent concurrency? Use mutex.  
Each CAN thread has a shared mutex assuring that the data is accessed and modified only by one thread at each time.

## Parsing
Message parsing is done right after receiving a message, is uses canlib and its device implementation. Basically for each message the canlib parses the data into a buffer, that buffer can then be casted in the right structure (based on the id) and allows to access the data.

## Conversions
Here we have to make a distinction between the conversions inside the canlib and the ones for the controls. The first is intrinsic to the canlib and are done to pack the data to optimize the bytes sent via CAN. The conversions for the controls are the ones that are needed to assure that the units of the signals are the same as the ones needed for the controls. These are:
- Speed: rad/s
- Steering angle: rad (positive counter clockwise)
- Throttle: from 0 to 1
- Brake: from 0 to 1
- Accelerometer: m/s^2
- Gyroscope: rad/s

## Update models
Each Matlab generated model has its own variables that must be updated. Those are declared extern in the model header.
Each model has a list of vars that must be updated, from the code is not explicit which are in input and which are in output. Ask to the ones that wrote the models in Matlab.

## Step models
Simply after updating the variables of the models, call the step function to calculate the new values

## Send can messages
Send each output value with its own frequency, this is very important as explained in chapter "2. Architecture".
